docs/getting-started.md, before:

# Getting Started

This document shows how to deploy a "Hello World" app with Draft. If you haven't done so already, be sure you have Draft installed according to the [Installation Guide][Installation Guide].

## App setup

There are multiple example applications included within the [examples directory](../examples). For this walkthrough, we'll be using the [python example application](../examples/example-python) which uses [Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/) to provide a very simple Hello World webserver.

```shell
$ cd examples/example-python
```

## Draft Create

We need some "scaffolding" to deploy our app into a [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) cluster. Draft can create a [Helm](https://helm.sh/) chart, a `Dockerfile` and a `draft.toml` with `draft create`:

```shell
$ draft create
--> Draft detected the primary language as Python with 97.267760% certainty.
--> Ready to sail
$ ls -a
.draftignore  Dockerfile  app.py  chart/  draft.toml  requirements.txt
```

The `chart/` and `Dockerfile` assets created by Draft default to a basic Python configuration. This `Dockerfile` harnesses the [python:onbuild](https://hub.docker.com/_/python/) image, which will install the dependencies in `requirements.txt` and copy the current directory into `/usr/src/app`. And to align with the service values in `chart/values.yaml`, this Dockerfile exposes port 80 from the container.

The `draft.toml` file contains basic configuration about the application like the name, which namespace it will be deployed to, and whether to deploy the app automatically when local files change.

```shell
$ cat draft.toml
[environments]
  [environments.development]
    name = "example-python"
    namespace = "default"
    wait = false
    watch = false
    watch_delay = 2
```

See [DEP 6](reference/dep-006.md) for more information and available configuration on the `draft.toml`.

A `.draftignore` file is created as well for elements we want to exclude tracking on `draft up` when watching for changes. The syntax is identical to [helm's .helmignore file](https://github.com/kubernetes/helm/blob/master/pkg/repo/repotest/testdata/examplechart/.helmignore).

## Draft Up

Now we're ready to deploy this app to a Kubernetes cluster. Draft handles these tasks with one `draft up` command:

- reads configuration from `draft.toml`
- compresses the `chart/` directory and the application directory as two separate tarballs
- uploads the tarballs to `draftd`, the server-side component
- `draftd` builds the docker image and pushes the image to a registry
- `draftd` instructs helm to install the chart, referencing the image just built

```shell
$ draft up
Draft Up Started: 'example-python'
example-python: Building Docker Image: SUCCESS ⚓  (73.0991s)
example-python: Pushing Docker Image: SUCCESS ⚓  (69.1425s)
example-python: Releasing Application: SUCCESS ⚓  (0.6875s)
example-python: Build ID: 01BSY5R8J45QHG9D3B17PAXMGN
```

## Interact with the Deployed App

Now that the application has been deployed, we can connect to our app.

```shell
$ draft connect
Connecting to your app...SUCCESS...Connect to your app on localhost:55139
Starting log streaming...
172.17.0.1 - - [13/Sep/2017 19:10:09] "GET / HTTP/1.1" 200 -
```

Note that it may take some time for the app to deploy, so if you see a message like "Error: could not find a ready pod", just wait a little longer for the image to be deployed.

`draft connect` works by creating a local environment for you to test your app. It proxies a connection from the pod running in minikube to a localhost url that you can use to see your application working. It will also print out logs from your application.

In another terminal window, we can connect to our app using the address displayed from `draft connect`'s output.

```shell
$ curl localhost:55139
Hello, World!
```

Once you're done playing with this app, cancel out of the `draft connect` session using CTRL+C.

## Update the App

Now, let's change the output in `app.py` to output "Hello, Draft!" instead:

```shell
$ cat <<EOF > app.py
from flask import Flask

app = Flask(__name__)

@app.route("/")
def hello():
    return "Hello, Draft!\n"

if __name__ == "__main__":
    app.run(host='0.0.0.0', port=8080)
EOF
```

## Draft Up(grade)

When we call `draft up` again, Draft determines that the Helm release already exists and will perform a `helm upgrade` rather than attempting another `helm install`:

```shell
$ draft up
Draft Up Started: 'example-python'
example-python: Building Docker Image: SUCCESS ⚓  (13.0127s)
example-python: Pushing Docker Image: SUCCESS ⚓  (16.0272s)
example-python: Releasing Application: SUCCESS ⚓  (0.5533s)
example-python: Build ID: 01BSYA4MW4BDNAPG6VVFWEPTH8
```

We should notice a significant faster build time here. This is because Docker is caching unchanged
layers and only compiling layers that need to be re-built in the background.

## Great Success!

Now when we run `draft connect` and open the local URL using `curl` or our browser, we can see our app has been updated!

```shell
$ curl localhost:55196
Hello, Draft!
```

[Installation Guide]: install.md
[Helm]: https://github.com/kubernetes/helm
[Kubernetes]: https://kubernetes.io/
[Python]: https://www.python.org/

Commit message:

Added comment about filtering for language discovery

docs/getting-started.md, after:

# Getting Started

This document shows how to deploy a "Hello World" app with Draft. If you haven't done so already, be sure you have Draft installed according to the [Installation Guide][Installation Guide].

## App setup

There are multiple example applications included within the [examples directory](../examples). For this walkthrough, we'll be using the [python example application](../examples/example-python) which uses [Flask](http://flask.pocoo.org/) to provide a very simple Hello World webserver.

```shell
$ cd examples/example-python
```

## Draft Create

### Language Filtering
Draft leverages the [generaltso/linguist](https://github.com/generaltso/linguist) library, which in turn leverages the [github/linguist](https://github.com/github/linguist/tree/6db773686089fb02ce4244c8e88f20a4c1b4034d) library.

This is mentioned, as in some cases, the language discovery system recommends the wrong language. For example, when generating a SpringBoot app from [Spring Initializr](https://start.spring.io/) the language discovery will think that the project is of type Shell. In order to configure the system to discover a language project of Java the following was added to the .gitattributes file:

```
*mvnw* linguist-language=Java
````

For more details on filtering configuration [please see here](https://github.com/github/linguist/tree/6db773686089fb02ce4244c8e88f20a4c1b4034d).

### Create Scaffolding

We need some "scaffolding" to deploy our app into a [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) cluster. Draft can create a [Helm](https://helm.sh/) chart, a `Dockerfile` and a `draft.toml` with `draft create`:

```shell
$ draft create
--> Draft detected the primary language as Python with 97.267760% certainty.
--> Ready to sail
$ ls -a
.draftignore  Dockerfile  app.py  chart/  draft.toml  requirements.txt
```

The `chart/` and `Dockerfile` assets created by Draft default to a basic Python configuration. This `Dockerfile` harnesses the [python:onbuild](https://hub.docker.com/_/python/) image, which will install the dependencies in `requirements.txt` and copy the current directory into `/usr/src/app`. And to align with the service values in `chart/values.yaml`, this Dockerfile exposes port 80 from the container.

The `draft.toml` file contains basic configuration about the application like the name, which namespace it will be deployed to, and whether to deploy the app automatically when local files change.

```shell
$ cat draft.toml
[environments]
  [environments.development]
    name = "example-python"
    namespace = "default"
    wait = false
    watch = false
    watch_delay = 2
```

See [DEP 6](reference/dep-006.md) for more information and available configuration on the `draft.toml`.

A `.draftignore` file is created as well for elements we want to exclude tracking on `draft up` when watching for changes. The syntax is identical to [helm's .helmignore file](https://github.com/kubernetes/helm/blob/master/pkg/repo/repotest/testdata/examplechart/.helmignore).

## Draft Up

Now we're ready to deploy this app to a Kubernetes cluster. Draft handles these tasks with one `draft up` command:

- reads configuration from `draft.toml`
- compresses the `chart/` directory and the application directory as two separate tarballs
- uploads the tarballs to `draftd`, the server-side component
- `draftd` builds the docker image and pushes the image to a registry
- `draftd` instructs helm to install the chart, referencing the image just built

```shell
$ draft up
Draft Up Started: 'example-python'
example-python: Building Docker Image: SUCCESS ⚓  (73.0991s)
example-python: Pushing Docker Image: SUCCESS ⚓  (69.1425s)
example-python: Releasing Application: SUCCESS ⚓  (0.6875s)
example-python: Build ID: 01BSY5R8J45QHG9D3B17PAXMGN
```

## Interact with the Deployed App

Now that the application has been deployed, we can connect to our app.

```shell
$ draft connect
Connecting to your app...SUCCESS...Connect to your app on localhost:55139
Starting log streaming...
172.17.0.1 - - [13/Sep/2017 19:10:09] "GET / HTTP/1.1" 200 -
```

Note that it may take some time for the app to deploy, so if you see a message like "Error: could not find a ready pod", just wait a little longer for the image to be deployed.

`draft connect` works by creating a local environment for you to test your app. It proxies a connection from the pod running in minikube to a localhost url that you can use to see your application working. It will also print out logs from your application.

In another terminal window, we can connect to our app using the address displayed from `draft connect`'s output.

```shell
$ curl localhost:55139
Hello, World!
```

Once you're done playing with this app, cancel out of the `draft connect` session using CTRL+C.

## Update the App

Now, let's change the output in `app.py` to output "Hello, Draft!" instead:

```shell
$ cat <<EOF > app.py
from flask import Flask

app = Flask(__name__)

@app.route("/")
def hello():
    return "Hello, Draft!\n"

if __name__ == "__main__":
    app.run(host='0.0.0.0', port=8080)
EOF
```

## Draft Up(grade)

When we call `draft up` again, Draft determines that the Helm release already exists and will perform a `helm upgrade` rather than attempting another `helm install`:

```shell
$ draft up
Draft Up Started: 'example-python'
example-python: Building Docker Image: SUCCESS ⚓  (13.0127s)
example-python: Pushing Docker Image: SUCCESS ⚓  (16.0272s)
example-python: Releasing Application: SUCCESS ⚓  (0.5533s)
example-python: Build ID: 01BSYA4MW4BDNAPG6VVFWEPTH8
```

We should notice a significant faster build time here. This is because Docker is caching unchanged
layers and only compiling layers that need to be re-built in the background.

## Great Success!

Now when we run `draft connect` and open the local URL using `curl` or our browser, we can see our app has been updated!

```shell
$ curl localhost:55196
Hello, Draft!
```

[Installation Guide]: install.md
[Helm]: https://github.com/kubernetes/helm
[Kubernetes]: https://kubernetes.io/
[Python]: https://www.python.org/
